hello
um i just wanted to make a little
announcement um
sorry that we haven't been posting as
much as we wanted to on on patreon i've
been a little under the weather
i think i'm
getting better but it's a slow process
um
so i was supposed to be having a
vacation too but my vacation has largely
consisted of convolutions um
but there's good news too uh the king's
book is basically done and i really
really want to thank everybody who
helped out with the editing the
translation with volunteering in
different ways this really is a
collective effort and we did it you know
so we'll be sending out copies of that
soon um
in the meantime
we are thinking about
pirates
and this is going to be a lot of fun
because one of the things which i think
there are no good children's books
papyrus nika points this out all the
time
there's lots of books about pirates
you know everybody thinks kids should be
interested in pirates and often they are
but it often seems like they're trying
to make them as boring and and and
unimaginative as possible i mean there's
a lot of things about pirates are really
interesting and fun um that just don't
get into the books and one of the things
about pirates it fascinates me
personally and i have a book about
pirates it's only available now in
french for various somewhat silly
contractual reasons it'll come out in
english someday
but it's a scholarly book
now this book that we're going to start
doing
this book is a little different um it's
but it it starts especially with the
idea
of stories
because
a lot of his you know acting in history
means not just acting but acting in such
a way that you kind of set up the story
that people are going to say about you
afterwards and one of my very first book
that i wrote um was about this village
in madagascar one of the great themes
that political action is acting in such
a way
that you know it will be represented to
people
uh afterwards i mean obviously you can
do so you're doing something at the time
mostly
but
what makes it specifically political is
that it influences people by their
having heard that you did it or people
who were not there at the time
so so there's a manipulation of stories
but but generally speaking like
king goes off and everything he does is
there are stories told about it but he
doesn't tell the stories right you need
somebody so you're trying to act in such
a way that other people will tell
stories in the way that you want them to
of course the whole thing gets out of
control
now
the interesting thing about pirates is
that they were rebels i mean pirates are
basically outlaws ah in the sense that
anybody had the right to kill them they
were mutually mutineers i'm
distinguishing here between pirates and
privateers right so if we're talking
about the
1600s um
the sort of golden age of piracy the
1680 16 1917 os um
those guys
were
mostly people who'd mutineed a lot of
them are people who'd been kidnapped to
begin with that's why they were on the
ship they used to just grab people on
the street and make them sailors
so the guys have been kidnapped rose up
against the oppressive
um
captain but they knew that by doing that
there's they there's basically no place
they could go
uh they were wanted everywhere and there
were all these mutual agreements um
so so
they would raise a flag and say
okay fine we declare a war on all of the
world
and in fact that's what the pirate flag
meant
uh the jolly roger it was a skull with
an hourglass usually and the hourglass
implied you know it's just a matter of
time
it's not like you're going to die it's
like we're going to die but we don't
care you know we're living dead
we're living on borrowed time but we
don't mind that we're going to have fun
with it
but we should think about it as even
scarier in a way but
um
in keeping themselves alive which they
often did manage to do a lot of them
ended up retiring to madagascar actually
which
uh and their descendants are still there
i knew some of them when i was when i
was in madagascar
uh 20 years ago
they um
they managed to do it by the
manipulation of stories they actually
managed to convince people there was a
pirate kingdom in madagascar for example
which was sending out phony ambassadors
all over europe and i think peter the
great tried to send a couple ships to
support them um they made alliances they
were basically amazing scam artists and
they were constantly telling these crazy
stories
um
both to scare people and entrance people
about utopian experiments about terrible
terrible acts of violence and
to this day it's almost impossible to
know what's true but they were so good
at what they did as the arts and
propaganda that we're still telling
those stories now so in a way that's the
story that
i want to tell how it is these these
essentially ordinary people you know i
mean they're just guys they grabbed off
the street put in an extraordinary
situation became these geniuses of
narrative who who managed to you know
change our entire shape of history and
what's possible in it and tell these
stories so compelling we're still
telling them just as a way to survive